Create security document (#17)
tikv/website: content/docs/security.md

```toml
# Using empty strings here means disabling secure connections.
[security]
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
ca-path = "/path/to/ca.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
cert-path = "/path/to/tikv-server-cert.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
key-path = "/path/to/tikv-server-key.pem"
```

You'll also need to **change the connection URL to `https://`**.

### Configure the PD Certificates

Specify the TLS options for PD certificate with the configuration file options:

```toml
[security]
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
cacert-path = "/path/to/ca.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
cert-path = "/path/to/pd-server-cert.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
key-path = "/path/to/pd-server-key.pem"
```

You'll also need to **change the connection URL to `https://`**.

### Configure the Client

> When connecting your TiKV Client, you'll need to specify the TLS options. In this example we build a configuration for the [Rust Client](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When connecting your TiKV Client, you'll need to specify the TLS options. In this example, we build a configuration for the [Rust Client](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust):
```

When using `pd-ctl` and `tikv-ctl` the relevant options will need to be specified:

```bash
pd-ctl                                    \
    --pd     "https://127.0.0.1:2379"     \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
    --cacert "/path/to/ca.pem"            \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
    --cert   "/path/to/client.pem"        \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
    --key    "/path/to/client-key.pem"

tikv-ctl                                  \
    --host      "127.0.0.1:20160"         \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
    --ca-path   "/path/to/ca.pem"         \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
    --cert-path "/path/to/client.pem"     \
    # The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
    --key-path  "/path/to/client-key.pem"
```

## On-Disk Encryption

TiKV currently does not offer built-in on disk encryption.

> This means an actor with access to the directory could extract TiKV data from it. If TiKV offered build in on disk encryption then an actor would not be able to access the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means an actor with access to the directory could extract TiKV data from it. If TiKV offered build in on disk encryption, then an actor would not be able to access the data.
```

---
title: Security
description: Securing TiKV 
weight: 7
draft: false
---

This page discusses how to secure your TiKV deployment. Learn how to:

* Use [Transport Layer Security](#transport-layer-security-tls) to encrypt connections between TiKV nodes
* Use [On-Disk Encryption](#on-disk-encryption) to encrypt the data that TiKV reads and writes to disk
* [Report vulnerabilities](#reporting-vulnerabilities)

## Transport Layer Security (TLS)

> It is possible to use TLS encryption with TiKV. To start, you need to prepare the certificates for the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use TLS encryption with TiKV, you need to prepare and configure the certificates for the deployment.
```

Reviewer 2: Could you say something about why a user might want to use TLS with TiKV (and same with ODE below)? And the benefits it brings for security

### Prepare Certificates

> It is recommended to prepare a separate server certificate for TiKV and PD, and make sure that they can authenticate each other. The clients of TiKV and PD share one client certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to prepare a separate server certificate for TiKV and Placement Driver (PD), and make sure that they can authenticate each other. The clients of TiKV and PD share one client certificate.
```

> You can use multiple tools to generate self-signed certificates, such as `openssl`, `easy-rsa` and `cfssl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use multiple tools to generate self-signed certificates, such as `openssl`, `easy-rsa`, and `cfssl`.
```

Author: I'm glad we can agree about the oxford comma. :) 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/130903/53659555-b9735f00-3c10-11e9-9eff-7b5a9782d621.png)

See an example of [generating self-signed certificates](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/op-guide/generate-self-signed-certificates.md) using `cfssl`.

### Configure the TiKV Server Certificates

Specify the TLS options via command line or the configuration file.

> 

Reviewer: details for command line method?

The relevant options in the configuration file are:

```toml
# Using empty strings here means disabling secure connections.
[security]
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
ca-path = "/path/to/ca.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
cert-path = "/path/to/tikv-server-cert.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
key-path = "/path/to/tikv-server-key.pem"
```

> You'll also need to **change the corresponding URL to `https://`**.

Reviewer 2: Which URL? Could you give more detail please

> ### Configure the Placement Driver Certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure the PD Certificates
```

> 

Reviewer: Specify the TLS options for PD certificates via command line or the configuration file.
[Add command line usage here?]

The relevant options in the configuration file are:

> 

Reviewer: Specify the TLS options for PD certificates via command line or the configuration file.
[Add command line usage here?]

The relevant options in the configuration file are:

```toml
[security]
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
cacert-path = "/path/to/ca.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
cert-path = "/path/to/pd-server-cert.pem"
# The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
key-path = "/path/to/pd-server-key.pem"
```

You'll also need to **change the corresponding URL to `https://`**.

### Configure the Client

When connecting your TiKV Client, you'll need to specify the TLS options. In this example we build a configuration for the [Rust Client](https://github.com/tikv/client-rust):

```rust
let config = Config::new(/* ... */).with_security(
    // The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s CA certificates.
    "/path/to/ca.pem",
    // The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s certificate chain.
    "/path/to/tikv-client-cert.pem",
    // The path to the file that contains the PEM encoding of the server’s private key.
    "/path/to/tikv-client-key.pem"
);
```

You'll also need to **change the corresponding URL to `https://`**.

## On-Disk Encryption

> TiKV currently does not offer built-in on disk encryption. If this is a requirement for your deployment you can consider creating an encrypted volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV currently does not offer built-in on-disk encryption. If this is a requirement for your deployment, you can consider creating an encrypted volume.
```

Reviewer 2: Could you explain the differences between proper ODE support and using an encrypted volume?

> This feature is part of the planned [roadmap](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/docs/ROADMAP.md#engine) under 'Pluggable Engine Interface'. *(See this [Issue #3680](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/3680) if you want to help.)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is part of the planned [roadmap](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/docs/ROADMAP.md#engine) under 'Pluggable Engine Interface'. *(See [Issue #3680](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/3680) if you want to help.)*
```

## Reporting Vulnerabilities

> For virtually all vulnerabilities you are invited to open a ['Bug Report'](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/new?template=bug-report.md) on our issue tracker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For virtually all vulnerabilities, you are invited to open a ['Bug Report'](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/new?template=bug-report.md) on our issue tracker.
```

> For virtually all vulnerabilities you are invited to open a ['Bug Report'](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/new?template=bug-report.md) on our issue tracker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For most vulnerabilities, you are invited to open a ['Bug Report'](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/new?template=bug-report.md) on our issue tracker.
```

> For situations where the vulnerability must be kept secret to maintain data security or integrity, you can contact [a maintainer](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md). They are best equipped to handle these critical situations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For situations where the vulnerability must be kept secret to maintain data security or integrity, you can contact our [maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md), who are best equipped to handle these critical situations.
```

Author: Keeping it "A maintainer" to discourage folks from mailing everyone.

> For situations where the vulnerability must be kept secret to maintain data security or integrity, you can contact [a maintainer](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md). They are best equipped to handle these critical situations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For situations where the vulnerability must be kept secret to maintain data security or integrity, you should contact [a maintainer](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md). They are best equipped to handle these critical situations.
```

Reviewer 2: So this seems fine for an initial policy, but I think we need a more thorough policy in the long term. Including:

* having a dedicated security@pingcap.com email address to send email to, rather than providing the maintainer list
* some kind of SLA - 'we'll reply within one business day' or 24 hours or whatever, 'we'll update you every 3 business days' or whatever
* provide a public key to encrypt the email
* provide backup email addresses for if the report is not acknowledged
* ask not to publicly disclose vulns until it is safe to do so
* describe how we typically address vulns (i.e., the process for releasing a security patch, letting clients know, letting the reporter know, public disclosure, do we do CVEs, etc).

Here is the Rust page: https://www.rust-lang.org/policies/security, here is the 'RFPolicy' it is loosely based on: https://dl.packetstormsecurity.net/papers/general/rfpolicy-2.0.txt

Author: I completely agree, though security@pingcap.com is inappropriate since this is for TiKV/PD so it should be security@tikv.org.

We should definitely evolve this. Let's work on incremental improvements for now.

Examples of critical situations:

> * You discovered a bug in the TLS implementation of TiKV which could leak data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have discovered a bug in the TLS implementation of TiKV which could leak data.
```

> * You discovered a way to retrieve more data than expected from TiKV with a command on a live, production deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have discovered a way to retrieve more data than expected from TiKV with a command on a live, production deployment.
```

> * You discovered a way to retrieve more data than expected from TiKV with a command on a live, production deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You discovered a way to retrieve more data than expected from TiKV.
```
